URL: https://www.linkedin.com/in/laraacostar/

I JUST MADE IT TO FORBES 30 UNDER 30!

This is your reminder that no goal is ever too "BIG".

I've had this on my vision board since I turned 23.
Even when I had nothing, I've always wanted everything. 

Even when I kept hearing "it's too late".
Even when I heard "Linkedin isn't worth it".

Let this be your proof that anything is possible.

The goal has always been the same.
Make mum and dad proud. 

No matter how many times I lost. I never quit. 

And guess what? WE MADE IT.

LinkedIn changed my life. Personal branding changed my life. Writing online changed my life.

Building a business (and failing) in public changed my life. 

And doing it all while in my 20s.

Don't let anyone tell you you can't do it. 

Your Lara loves you and is rooting for you. ❤️

Official @Forbes list: https://lnkd.in/ereDsfmB

WE DID IT!!!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You don't need algorithm hacks to grow on LinkedIn.

I spent the last 90 days testing every growth hack I could find. Here's what actually works:

(Based on analyzing content in different niches)

1. Hyper-specific content (3x a week)

• Solve one exact problem per post
• Use industry language your clients use
• Speak directly to one person

Jake Ward has mastered this for B2B. 

Address their problems directly. 

i.e "Stop losing credibility with your body language."

2. Proof-First Content

80% tactical step-by-step frameworks and screenshots.
20% stories on how you're doing it (use stories)

The 80% builds trust, the 20% engages them more. 

Educate and storytell. Always both. 

3. LinkedIn Video (let me explain...)

Video reach might be down right now.
But it's the fastest way to prove authority. 

LinkedIn video is ok.
Linkedin Lives? They're a goldmine.

We had a LinkedIn live with 200 people.
Made $10,000 from it. 

People buy from people they trust. Video accelerates this! 

I'd limit these to 2 a month, though, no pressure. 

I left a checklist for you in the image below for you to script your first Linkedin video too btw.

This is the no-bs blueprint for entrepreneurs. 

It's not about more volume, it's about more insights.

Dominating LinkedIn isn't just about virality right now.
It's about building a brand that earns trust.

Keep your focus on your 1 thing. 

The rest will follow.

I've just recorded a private video on how to dominate "storytelling" on LinkedIn like an expert. 

If you want it ♻️ repost this post and I'll send it to you (20 people max). 

PS: Which step do you struggle with the most? 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

My biggest prediction of 2026: the future winners will build one-person businesses on LinkedIn. 

You don't need an office.
You don't need a bloated team.
You don't need to raise investment. 

All you truly need is content, AI and an offer. 

AI has leveled the playing field. 

It can write your content, while you build.
It can build your business, while you market.
It can speed up your marketing, while you deliver. 

I've seen 1,000s of people do it. In fact...

I was one of them.

Leveraged LinkedIn and AI to make $100,000 fast. 

All I needed was the right guidance and skills.

Want to get started? I'm delivering a FREE masterclass for every one of you who want the exact playbook.

Content, distribution, marketing and offer. ALL OF IT.

Join me April 14th-15th LIVE. 

→ https://lnkd.in/e9YQfHP9

It's time to build an insanely profitable business.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Next stop in my speaking tour: Birmingham! 

So far we've covered croatia, new york, LA, Bosnia, and many more cities across the globe. 

But this one means a lot to me. 
Because I spent my university days in Birmingham. 

Endless days studying for exams.
Ruthless days doing door 2 door... 

And the first time I'm back is a few years later, delivering a masterclass on how to build a $1M online business. 

I'm dropping my playbook on how to do it in 2026 from 0

From written form to video content, I'll reveal it all! 

But only... if you come see me LIVE! would love to meet you in person, especially if you're a brummie (ily)!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

My biggest prediction of 2026: the future winners will build one-person businesses on LinkedIn. 

You don't need an office.
You don't need a bloated team.
You don't need to raise investment. 

All you truly need is content, AI and an offer. 

AI has leveled the playing field. 

It can write your content, while you build.
It can build your business, while you market.
It can speed up your marketing, while you deliver. 

I've seen 1,000s of people do it. In fact...

I was one of them.

Leveraged LinkedIn and AI to make $100,000 fast. 

All I needed was the right guidance and skills.

Want to get started? I'm delivering a FREE masterclass for every one of you who want the exact playbook.

Content, distribution, marketing and offer. ALL OF IT.

Join me April 14th-15th LIVE. 

→ https://lnkd.in/e9YQfHP9

It's time to build an insanely profitable business.