# OFL0eI4JRJk

When I look at people who seem to have their lives figured out, and people who are stuck in an endless cycle of helplessness, I notice one key difference: their level of personal ownership and responsibility. Less successful people tend to feel controlled by, and thus blame their situation in life on external factors. On the other hand, more successful people feel personal responsibility for their success and what does or what doesn't happen in their life, regardless of their personal circumstances. And I can speak to this personally because I've experienced being on both ends of the spectrum in my personal life, throughout my life. When I was a teenager, And really wasn't doing anything with my life. Doing mediocre in school, not really investing in anything that would move me forward in life. I blamed a lot on external factors. That I didn't have the resources other kids had, my teachers were bad, just stuff like that. But once I got in my 20s, especially when I was almost 22, I realized that nobody was really coming to save me. And I started taking a lot more personal responsibility. And this translated into real action. It's just inevitable once you make that transition. Because everyone starts out with an external sense of responsibility. When you're a child, literally everything is done for you. But as you grow up, more and more, the choices in your life are ceded to you up until the point where you're an adult and you're fully responsible for your success, whether you like it or not. In other words, your responsibility becomes internal. The buck stops with you, not your parents or anyone else. The issue is that many people don't like that and keep that attitude into adulthood. Everything is someone else's fault. My bosses, my childhood, the place I live, etc. But honestly, regardless of how valid these claims may be, because sometimes, you know, you may genuinely be a victim of something. But if you let that take away your sense of personal responsibility, that attitude will destroy you. Whether you accept responsibility for them or not, Problems will keep showing up at your doorstep, and the way you feel about them won't change or appease the consequences of ignoring them. The things that happen to you may not necessarily be your fault, but they're always your responsibility, no matter what. Once you accept responsibility for your situation, that mindset shift will naturally translate to action, just like it did for me. From that point forward, you'll have the power to make things happen. And that's pretty much all there is to say.